hi kingdom by providing it with the necessary olicers of state, and
including within it a number of dependencies and subordinaté chiefs,
forms the subject of the next chapter, i 2g
 regarding negotiations and dispuice with forign tov eee
 . : : 
embassies and spies, which take up the whole of the gth, roth, rith
ane and the 12th chapter. The 13th opens with an exhostation in favour
of constant activity and attention to business, and the evils) which
attend idleness and vicious propensities. The latter are indicated
by the term vydsana, and include a number of vices and _ frailties—
such as over-fondness for humting and gambling, sleeping in thé
day, calumny, concupiscence, dancing, singing; playing, idleness,
drinking, general depravity, violence, injury, envy, malice, pride, and
tyranny. The term is very jcomprehensive, and when appiied to
s, other than men, is made to imply defects generally, and the subse-
in quent chapter particularises the various defects to which the seven
members of a government are frequently liable. It is followed by a
dissertation on military expeditions. The 16th chapter has fortifi-
 cation, entrenchment and encamping of armies for its subjects, and,
though short, is highly interesting, for the rules it contains an
matters in which the modern Hindus are so entirely ignorant. Thie
different expedients for overcoming enemies such as reconciliation,
wealth, show of military power, domestic discord, diplomacy,
' feigning, and stratagem, are detailed in the following chapter, and
those failing, 4 king is recommended to enter into actual warfare, and
on the mode of carrying it on, inchuding surprises, guerilla fights,
pitched battles, and military stratagies; the uses of the different
'' members of an army, such as the infantry, cavalry and elephants ;
the arrays of soldiers into columns, lines, squares c. ; the duties of
commanders, and thé principle of selecting ones ground ; the two
subsequent chapters contain the most curious details.
We have undertaken to translate into English this great work of
 Kamandaka for it stands pre-eminently
high among works dealing with the science
of Polity. It isthorougly representative in its character and the precepts,
of the great sage, weare sure, will prove a profitable reading to the
general public and more so to many Hindu princes who govern over
the destiny of a vast scction of the Indian population. Nov that it
 Our object.