KAMANDAKIYA NITISARAY ay:
8. Anuzkshikee, Trayee and Varté are considered to be
the most excellent of all knowledgé. But their presence
is of no avail where Dandaniti is neglected.t
g. When a great leader of men attains proficiency in
Dandaniti, he becomes the master of the other remaining
 branches of knowledge.
10. The Varnast and the Asramas, find their primary
support in these kinds of knowledge. For this reason, a king,
superintending and securing the means for the cultivation
of these kinds of knowledge, becomes a sharer] in the relj-
gious merit earned by the different castes in their different
 modes of existence.
1i. Anvikshikeef is the science of spiritual knowledge, for
 a
' For, says the commentator, they serve as means for the acquire-
 gent of wealth and religious merit.
 The text lit: translated would be where a mistake is committed
with regard to Dendaniti. What the author means, seems to be this :—
The transgression of the rules of Political science by a king is so dis-
astrous that it cannot be remedied even by all his learning -and
 ingenuity.
 Varna—means a tribe or a caste, specially applied to the four castes,
namely :—Brdhmana (the spiritual class), Kshatriya (governing class),
Vaisya, (trading and cultivating class), and Sudva (serving class). These
classes are said to have been born respectively from the mouth (signifying
intelligence), the arms (signifying strength), the abdomen (signifying hun-
ger), and the legs (signifying servitude) of the Puzvzsha or Supreme Spirit.
 Asvama—or the mode of living in different periods of -cxist-
ence of these castes or classes; these are four, namely :—(1) Brahma-
charyya, or rcligious studentship, the life of celibacy passcd by a
Bréhmana boy in studying the Vedas. This is the first stage of life.
(2) Gérhasthya or the order of life of a Grihasthya or house-holder.
This is the second stage. (3) Vénaprastha or the religious life of
an anchorite. This is the third stage. (4) Saxnydsa or the compl :té
renunciation of the world and its possessions and attachments. Thé
first three classes can center upon these four stages ; but the Sudras aré
 disallowed to do so.
, His share has been specified to be one-sixth only,
 Modern Metaphysics,
 3