KAMANDAKIYA NITISARA, 23
duties results in the spread of mixed castes .and thus brings 
 about the ruin of this world.
34. The king is the lawful promoter of all these tight-
eous practices ; therefore in the absence ofa king all right-
eousness is lost and at the loss of righteousness, this world
 also meets with destruction.
35. A king, protecting the variousVarnas and Asramas,t
and living according to their usages and knowing the duties
prescribed for each of them, becomes worthy of a place in
 the regions of Sakra.t
36. As a self-controlled King holds the key to the
worldly as well as spiritual advancement of his own sclf as
also of his subjects, therefore he should deal out punishments
 as impartially as does DandG himself.
3. Inflicting extraordinarily heavy punishments a king
frightens his subjects, and inflicting extraordinarily light ones
he is not feared by them. Therefore that king is praise-worthy
who deals out punishments proportionate to the offences.
38. Punishments, dealt out proportionately to the offen-
ces, speedily increase the Zrivarga of a king, while dispro-
 i
 Another interpretation is possible, namely, A king is to encourage 
these righteous practices, not transgressing the limits of law.
 f Vide Szpva note to Sloka 1oth.
 Sarvalokavag should be read as Sakvalokavac, which is the reading
given in the commentary. Sakra or Indra is the Jupiter Pluvius of the
Indian Aryans. Of all the paradiscs, his paradise is the most magnifi-
cent and is fraught with all sorts of pleasures, he being notorious for
 his incontinence and lasciviency.
 The author now proceeds to impress upon the minds of monarchs,
the necessity of the right administration of justice.
 For Atmata of the text read Atmavdn which gives a good sense.
 Here also we follow the commentary.
Wl Dandi—another appellation for the god of death, who is so called
for his holding the sceptre of sway (Danda). One ofthe duties of his
office is to deal out rewards and punishments to the souls of the depart-
ed according to their merits and de-merits accruing from worldly acts.