22 KAMANDAKIYA: NITISARA.
sacrifices, to sleep on the bare earth, to wear black deer skin,
to live in solitary places, to sustain themselves on water, escu-
lent roots, Wzvéra crop, and fruits, to refuse to accept alms,
to bathe thrice in the day,t to observe vows, and to adore
 the gods and.the guests.
29-——-31. The duties of the wandering mendicantsf are, to
renounce all actions, to live upon what is obtained by beg-
ging, to dwell under the shelter of a tree, to refuse smallest
gifts, to dono harm to other created beings and to maintain
anequality of attitude towards them, to be indifferent] alike
to friends and enemies, to be unmoved by joy or grief, to bé
purified in miind and in body]. to curb the speech, to
observe vows, to retract the senses from their objects, to keep
the mind always collected, to be absorbed in contemplation
 and to purify. their intentions.
32. Harmlessness, the gpeaking of sweet and salutary
words, truthfulness, purification of the mind and the body,
and mercy and forbearance, these are said to be the common
duties of all the sects in all their different modes of life.
33. These are the duties of all the sects in all their
modes of existence, (the observance of) which can secure
paradise and salvation for them, The neglect of these
'. Nivdra is rice growing wild or without cultivation.
 Supply after Which they should perform their Sandhyds, or
morning, noon-and evening.prayers. Vide Supvanote to Sloka 22nd.
-Or who have entered upon the Saznydsa Asvama (vide Supra note
 to Sloka roth). 7
, Even, goes on the commentator, pieces of rags for binding their
 religious Manuscripts (Punthz).
 The word: in the text gives no signification ; and so the commentary
reads priydpriydéparisanga in its place.
 The body says the commentator, is purified by rubbing and
washing with earth and water, and the mind by. cherishing kindness for
 allcreatures.
 For Vékmano-brahmachévitd of the text the commentary reads
Vagyamo Vvatachdritd, The latter reading surely yields a better meaning.