il
boys of India get by rote. The author, of the work which is the.
subject of our translation, was a disciple of Chanakya who raised
the first Mauriya king Chandra Gupta on the throne of Pataliputra 4
 (B.C. 319.) fi
Tradition fully corroborates this date. From a report submitted ; j
by Dr. Frederich to the Batavian Society": :
 of arts and Sciences on the Sanskrita'
 Date.
literature of Bali, it appears that the most popular work in that
Island on Polity is entitled Kemandakiya Nitiséra, and all the Sans-
krila books there extant are acknowledged to be the counterparts of 
purely Indian originals. The researches of Sir Stamford Raffles
and Crawfurd shew that the predominance of Buddhism in the
island of Java obliged the Hindu inhabitants of that place to retire
in the fourth century of the Christian era, with their household gods
and their sacred scriptures to the island of Bali, where they and
their descendants have, ever since, most carefully preserved the
authenticity of their literature and their religion. It has also been
shewn by the same authorities that since the period of their exile,
they have not had any religious intercourse with India; it would
therefore follow that the Sanskrita works now available in Bali,
including the Awmandakiya Nitt, are of a date anterior to the gti
century. The contents, however, of the Balenese code of morals,
are unknown, and it would be premature, from the similarity of
names, to infer its identity with the work now presented to the
public; yet the fact that the people of Bali themselves acknowledge
all their Sanskrita literature to have been obtained from India,
would argue the existence of at least a Aamandakiya Ni Wisdra at.
the time when that literature was imported from the shores of
 Bharatavarsha.
An internal evidcnce of some moment is in favour of the anti-—
qnity which tradition has ascribed to this work. It is dedicated to 
Chandragupta, and the author, a Buddhist, apparently with a view .
not to offend the feelings of his Hindu patron with the name of Pe
Buddhist deity, has thought fit to forego the usual invocation at the
commencement of his work—a circumstance which has been made
the theme of much erudite disquisition by the author of the
 Siddhanta Muktavali.