KAMANDAKIYA NITISARA. 13
met with destruction through lust, Janaméjaya through
anger, the royal sage Aila through avarice, the Asura Vatapi
through fiendish delight in doing injury, the Rakshasa Poulasta
through desire for honor, and king Dambhodbhava through
 arrogance.
58. Renouncing these six inimical passions, Jamadagnyat
became the master of his senses, and Amvarisat of eminent
parts enjoyed the sovereignty of the world for a long period.
 Dandaka.—One day when out hunting, this king affected with lust
forcibly ravished the daughter of the sage Vrigu, through whose anger
he was killed with his friends by a shower of dust.
Fanamejaya.—When engaged in the celebration of the Horse-sacri-
fice, he found marks of recent copulation on his wife ; this exasperated
him, and thinking that the sacrificial priests, had committed adultery
with her, he assaulted them. He met his death through the imprecation
 of these latter.
Aila—This monarch used to persecute and oppress his subjects for
money, who unable to brook his tyranny at last pelted him to death.
Vaétdpi.—This demon together with another named Ilvala used to
invite innocent sages to dine with them. One of them would then
assume the form of an animal and would be sacrificed by the other; his
meat would then be eaten by the sages. When inside the stomach, the
eaten up demon would be revived by the Sanjivani Mantra and vould
kill the sages by tearing open theirabdomen. They thus delighted in
killing innocent people, At last the great sage Agasthya ate this Vdtape
 up and digested him.
Poulasta.x—Ravana the ten-headed demon iof the Ramayana whose.
 history we need not recount here.
Dambhodbhava—This great demon who defeated many of the celestials
in battle was very much puffed up with arrogance. Finding none.equal
to him in single combat, he one day challenged the sage Nara to show
him a combatant that would be a match for him; the sage then himself .
 killed him with a blade of grass.
 Ason of Jamadagnia pious sage deeply engaged in study and
said to have obtained entire possession of the Vedas. His mother was
 Renuké.
 A king of the solar race celebrated as a worshipper of Vishnu.
 There is a supplement to this Sloka; itis this :— In order to in-
crease his religious merit and worldly prosperity—which are cagerly