iv 
 af
 ii
 
 orca
Kamiandaki hasbeen freely quoted though not by name. Thus we ?
see that these and similar maxims were among the Hindus as the 
 heir-looms of remote antiquity.
Some critics are of opinion that the moral tone of the state-
 policy is not worthy of a descendant
 of the ancient Rishis. Its corner stone
is Cunning and artifice intended to favor arbitrary power and its main
object is to put down party qpposition. Chanakya, the preceptor of
the author, was always on the alert to over-throw his powerful rival
Rakshasa. For this he took recourse to one eternal round of strata-
gems and artifices from which forgery, perjury and even poisoning
were not excluded. His disciple Kamandaka could not shake-off the
influence of his powerful teachér. But this defect is confined entirely
to the sections on deplomacy and does not affect at all his rules
regarding the general conduct of kings and their officers. Herein
we find an earnest advocacy of truth, justice and honesty!which stands
a favourable comparison with works of much higher pretensions.
 Moral tone.
The maxims-of Kamandaki are arranged under nineteen different
heads, and embrace almost all the sub-:
 jects that may be fairly included under
the term polity, besides some which have only the voucher
af Hindu: writers to appear in this work. The first chapter
is devoted to the inctilcation; in princes, of the necessity of
study and of controlling their passions. The second has for its
subjects the division of learning, the duties of the different castes
 Tho Synopsis of the work.
and the importance of criminal jurisprudence. Inthe third occurs
an exposition of the duty of princes to their subjects, of the neces-
sity of impartial justice, and the impropriety of tyrannising over
their people. The fourth affords a description of the essential
constituents of a good government. The duties of masters
and servants engtoss the whole of the fifth chapter, and the
mode of removing difficulties or rathefof punishing the wicked;
forms the subject of the sixth. The seventh is devoted
to the duty of -guarding the persons of kings and crown
princes, and includes a variety of expedients against surprises,
poisoning, the infidelity of servants, wives and relatives, and the
dishonesty of medical attendants. The mode of consolidating 21;